To me.
Lilliana Robinson: There we go. Okay. So today, normally, I introduce Kevin because he's coming in as like a pitch coach or a pitch specialist. But you guys know him. The reason Kevin does this workshop, as we've mentioned before, but I'll say it again is because Kevin ran his own startup for the
Lilliana Robinson: past like 3 years, or maybe yeah, it's been a while. But he transitioned out of it this last year, and in that he raised about half a million non diluted funding from just pitching.
Lilliana Robinson: So we have had him help all of our past classes for past like 4 or 5 programs with pitching
Lilliana Robinson: just because he's so great at that storytelling piece. So I know all of you know this firsthand because he's worked with each of you today. He's going to tailor it outside of the just general storytelling and pitching specifically for Demo Day, because he's seen almost all of the demo days that we've done, and has some kind of like tips where you should focus. If it were him going on stage, what he would do, super, helpful, super actionable. So this is a really good session. Definitely. Make sure that you
Lilliana Robinson: ask Kevin any sort of questions you have, because today is his last day.
Lilliana Robinson: so he will maybe share his personal email to keep in touch if he feels.
Kevin Kaspar: Definitely.
Lilliana Robinson: So inclined. Cool. Maybe you can post that in the Hq. Before you leave today, but definitely take this time right now to ask him all the questions you're gonna need for Demo Day, because I hope you're heading out and.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And Liliana, if I can just add one quick thing here, just as a commendation for Kevin. When I 1st was getting to know Kevin a few years back, and he had his company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was judging the the new venture challenge for Kellogg, which is like the big startup competition at the business school at Northwestern. And what was the prize money, Kevin? Was it 100 k.
Kevin Kaspar: 150, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 150 k. So the 150 k. Is on the line. It's all. It always goes to an Mba. It always goes to one of the polished fancy Mba students who are super experienced. So I'm 1 of the judges I'm getting to know Kevin. He just started off as an associate for us. I don't really know him that well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he's a sophomore, an undergrad.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he's got this like startup, and he shows up. He literally wipes the floor with everyone else. Like all the judges, we're all looking at each other like, okay, this kid's clearly got it. So I was just super impressed, and I didn't know someone at his age could be such an effective communicator of his business and answering questions so literally commanded the room, and I was like, All right, I need this guy in my orbit for a while, so I'm really grateful to have had you on our team, Kevin, it's been awesome. So thanks for helping.
Kevin Kaspar: Appreciate it, Neil. It's been a blast. Yeah, that was my 1st
Kevin Kaspar: my primary 1st interaction with Neil was. He was a judge. So that was pretty funny.
Kevin Kaspar: Cool. I'm gonna share my screen. I'll go through. A presentation. Please interrupt me anytime. I think that's probably the most important thing. We have an hour and a half together, so
Kevin Kaspar: if it's helpful, I'm happy to use all of it. We can leave time at the end for questions, or we can just ideally tackle them as they come up. So just unmute, or whatever is necessary. So please, please, please do that. I redid this deck
Kevin Kaspar: for all of you so hopefully. It's a little bit more up to date. Especially given the workshops that I have seen Liliana run with the storyboarding and the feedback that you're getting from Troy. So I tried to keep that in mind as I was building this out. But
Kevin Kaspar: Me try on
Kevin Kaspar: just gone. Everyone can see that right.
Kevin Kaspar: Looks yes.
Kevin Kaspar: cool.
Kevin Kaspar: alright, and I can see all of you. So that's good, too. But I can't see the chat, so someone might have to moderate that
Kevin Kaspar: cool alright. So like, Liliana said. This is about tips and tricks so
Kevin Kaspar: very tactical as you go into the next few weeks. What are you gonna focus on? Why are you gonna focus on it? And how do we get through the pitch? The demo and the Q, and A, in a way that is really effective. So I'm gonna go through this
Kevin Kaspar: outline. We go over our objective. The format review which you've already done. I have like, I would say, my core here is like the pitching principles. So these are things that I want you to know ahead of time before you actually start building out your pitch, your demo and your QA. And there's a lot of these so like honestly taking notes of them would be helpful. If that's something that you find helpful. I think that that's probably the meat of it going over some things about the pitch, the demo, the QA.
Kevin Kaspar: Some do's and don'ts things like that, and then how to make a good closing. Ask if I were prepping for Demo Day. What would I do? And then obviously questions if you all have them so, as it relates to the objective, one of the main goals is to give you not only the mindset but the already typo. That's funny, the mindset and the framework for getting the most out of demo Day, like you already have built your businesses over the past 8 to 10 weeks. So you should have
Kevin Kaspar: that as you're continuing to focus on it, you'll have that checked off. But this is all about giving you the right frameworks for actually communicating what you've done in an effective way. And that relates a lot to confidence. So a lot of this is gonna transpire day of right. All of your work will lead to Demo Day. It's not the end, all be all. But it is something that you want to make sure that you have that you're proud of, and a lot of that just relates to the confidence that you have actually going into it because you've spent years and years. You've committed your
Kevin Kaspar: life and your work to what you're building. So most of it is really centered around confidence and giving you different ways to frame the work that you're doing. So that's my main goal is to leave you with the frameworks that you need, and the confidence to actually go out and actually execute this
Kevin Kaspar: format review.
Kevin Kaspar: We already know that it's a 1 min pitch a 1 min, Demo, and a 4 min. QA.
Kevin Kaspar: These are the things that I just want you to keep in mind. Given the unique format, and I think it's great that Liliana and Neil have structured the format in the way that they have, because it solves for some of these implicitly. And they've learned these over time. But one big piece is like having a coherent storyline across all 3 segments of the pitch. I think oftentimes people view these as 3 separate
Kevin Kaspar: entities and 3 separate activities that they need to complete on stage when it should feel connected. And sometimes that's as easy as adding things like. Let's see how it works. And then showing the demo, or making sure that your 1st question that you ask that your eir asks is related to the demo. There's times to like switch between things, but often I think it's helpful to try and build a little bit of transition between each of these different components. So just think about that as you go through the process.
Kevin Kaspar: the second thing is. And and Troy already talked about this. But like you really are fighting for attention on stage. And it's it's related to your phone, like, I'm sure, doing this workshop. All of you will be a little bit distracted. That's totally fine, like.
Kevin Kaspar: hopefully, you're all super engaged. But at some point something's gonna bring you away, and that's just what's gonna happen when you're pitching on stage and ideally, you can be engaged or have your audience be engaged the entire time, and it's really hard to do that. So, thinking very tactically about that just as you go about it will help you. Is you just keep that framework in mind. The other thing Neil mentioned this earlier was, you just can't entertain everyone, and you should be okay with that
Kevin Kaspar: And just understand a lot of that should be related to your ask, like your pitch should be catered to the types of people that you're trying to reach at the end with your ask. So if you acknowledge that you're not necessarily going to entertain everyone, but you can sincerely and authentically entertain the people that are related to your ask. I think it's the most efficient way to tackle things.
Kevin Kaspar: but you don't want to build
Kevin Kaspar: a pitch and a narrative that most people can understand right? You don't want to be so technical that the broader audience completely zones out and that relates to my last piece is you never know who someone knows. So if you can engage a broader audience, you're more likely that someone will come up to you and say, Hey, I'm not the right person to help you with this, but, like my uncle, he works in cyber security, like you know, he he can help you. He's an expert in this field. How about. I connect you with him. So while the people in the room
Kevin Kaspar: not all of them can be helpful, you'd be surprised at Demo Day. Sometimes I've heard people say, I've gotten connections from other people who are just sitting in the room, and they want to connect them to the right people, so they have to have enough knowledge about your business to at least facilitate that introduction. And be willing to make that introduction so just definitely keep that in mind. It's obviously a balance like you'll see that with all of this, throughout the entire like conversation today, it's like
Kevin Kaspar: it's just going to be a balance of pros and cons, and what you prioritize and don't. But
Kevin Kaspar: you are the decision maker in that process. And by you I specifically mean the CEO. Above all, because you're going to be the one presenting this. So just again, keep those things in mind. I'm gonna go over some of the principles that I think are important. As you go through this process. These are the most tactical things.
Kevin Kaspar: I know I've worked with all of you already, so you know most of these things. But you have to. When you're communicating what you're building, teach it to someone who's literally 10 years old. People say, like the grandma technique. Can my grandma understand it? Or people have children? Will my child understand it? It's the same frame of reference. And the reason for that is because you have to do the hard work for the listener themselves.
Dave Scott: Hey Kevin.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, what's up.
Dave Scott: So I I had this exact same situation where I was giving a pitch to an angel group, and this lady she had to have been 80 was like.
Dave Scott: I don't understand it at all like, tell me what this is. So my question is in a 1 min pitch. How do you do that, and at the same at the same time still get across everything else you need to get across.
Dave Scott: you know, if you have to sort of talk to someone like they're 10 years old, like poor Morgan. How does she do it? And then still get her point across? And and I think mine is pretty well universally understood, and and this poor lady was so confused.
Kevin Kaspar: S.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I'll Liliana, do you wanna jump in first? st
Lilliana Robinson: Very quick and tactical, and then I want to hear yours is, don't use buzzwords and don't assume knowledge.
Lilliana Robinson: Those 2 things really quickly can dumb it down dumb. It down. Sounds like
Lilliana Robinson: not as positive as we would like, but basically that can get you to this readability or listening comprehension level that we want.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I totally agree. The second piece, I would add, is,
Kevin Kaspar: you're not going to be able to say everything in your 1 min pitch. I oftentimes think people in their 1 min pitch think that they have to condense
Kevin Kaspar: everything that they want to talk about in their business in 1 min, but you have a 4 min QA. And a demo to share, so you don't have to teach them everything in the beginning. You can separate it and send and pass it along to the other parts of the of the presentation. But the there's 1 more thing that I wanted to add, Oh, yeah, I often think that the biggest challenge, when people say they don't understand is 2 things they don't understand, who's using it
Kevin Kaspar: specifically so they can't picture in their brain like, who's actually interacting with this product. Or they don't understand
Kevin Kaspar: tactically what it does like not.
Kevin Kaspar: And and you can relate that to benefits. I think that's important. That oftentimes help people helps people understand
Kevin Kaspar: why someone would use a product and get benefit out of it. But also, like literally what you do like. Oh, our software helps, people do. XY, and Z, so those are like very trivial things. But if they can understand what you do and who it helps
Kevin Kaspar: very
Kevin Kaspar: like you're a 10 year old like it might take
Kevin Kaspar: you explaining those things, and a little bit more of a broad sense. For them to understand.
Lilliana Robinson: That's why we say show. Don't tell. I think the more you show, the easier it is for people to understand. So that's part of why we have the video
Lilliana Robinson: probably won't happen for Demo Day, because we just talked about your video.
Lilliana Robinson: It very clearly shows what's going on. I'm sure if the angel who didn't understand saw that it would help.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: and and Liliana hit this right? Really? Well, is, what information do you have to teach the audience? I often think that's the most critical piece to include in your pitch. Your initial pitch is because you need to teach them.
Kevin Kaspar: There's something you need to teach every person in that room about what you're building, and you just have to figure out what that most important thing to teach them is, and why they need to know that information, to understand the rest of your business, and once you do that, I think it it.
Kevin Kaspar: is a little bit more helpful, and that's why you kind of have to treat this like a information funnel. You have all of this information that you need to distill down, and while all of it is relevant to your business. Not all of it is essential for someone understanding your business. And I think there's a big difference with that. So being able to pinpoint what is essential for someone to understand your business is what needs to go out first, st and then you can trickle in the other things that are essential to your business later on.
Kevin Kaspar: that help contextualize? Why, it's so impactful who you're helping things like that later on.
Kevin Kaspar: Again, you're at the top of the funnel. The audience is at the end.
Kevin Kaspar: the next most important. I'm ordering these things, and most from most important to least important. So also keep that in mind that is like by far one of the most important things. The other thing which
Kevin Kaspar: this is my 1st time trying to explain this, so I apologize. If it doesn't go come across as easily. But I was talking about this with Annie actually is, how are you tying your sentences together effectively, and
Kevin Kaspar: if you can tie the previous sentence to the next sentence, people are going to follow it much more naturally like that makes sense right in reading like. That's how you do it. And there are plenty of other ways that
Kevin Kaspar: you can kind of communicate that information. I thought the best way to do it was from example. So this is a friend of mine, Charlotte. Some of you met her, but she was saying, I I pulled a line from her pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: So, as an all female Gen. Z. Team, we not only have the technical capabilities to build out cue the curves, but our team deeply understands our users experiences. So the second half of her sentence was, we understand, users, experiences, and then she leads the next sentence with as women who grew up in the age of online shopping and social media. So she's tying the second piece of her 1st sentence to the 1st piece of her second sentence, and it's hard to do that, because you don't have a lot of time. But this was a 7 min pitch, and that was every that was everything that she had time for.
Kevin Kaspar: So you have the capability to do this, and I think that trying to be intentional with this, to make sure that your transitions are really tactical and connect the dots really well is important.
Kevin Kaspar: This one's from me pitch that Neil listen to actually was. I was shocked to learn that 100% of interviewees reported word of mouth or direct site as their primary method of notification. This is for the Wildfire product I was building, and then my next sentence started with landowners rely so heavily on word of mouth. Because, dot.so you're taking the last idea from the previous sentence, and you're building on it. But you're using the same words and language to
Kevin Kaspar: to build it out. And this is often important when you're trying to say
Kevin Kaspar: something really important, like, if you're just connecting 2 independent thoughts, you don't need to do something like this. But if you really
Kevin Kaspar: it goes back to having to do the hard work for the listener. In the 1st place, like, if you craft your sentences like this.
Kevin Kaspar: they're gonna understand what you're building, and you're not gonna have to have them fill in the gaps. So hopefully, those examples help understand a little bit.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin, I feel like this is so underrated.
Lilliana Robinson: But people are not going to be able to understand disparate thoughts as well as you about your business because you're in your business. You know all this like people could just say random stuff. And you, it would make sense to you for someone who this is their 1st time. Even like considering this concept that you're putting forth.
Lilliana Robinson: This is how you kind of lead them in. You're like hand holding them to understanding.
Kevin Kaspar: Exactly.
Lilliana Robinson: It also helps you guys memorize because of one next.
Kevin Kaspar: Exactly
Kevin Kaspar: alright. The next one we've already talked about a hundred times, but I'm gonna keep pushing it down your throat.
Kevin Kaspar: The pitch will be more effective if you view it as a conversation, and not only are you gonna view the QA. As a conversation, but you should view the pitch as one as well. Personally, that's what I think. So some thoughts here is when you're prototyping the pitch. This I pulled this right from Neil's pocket. I wrote it down on the whiteboard yesterday. Say it out loud and write it down. I thought that was super effective, because
Kevin Kaspar: I noticed this when I was helping. All of you was some of the things that we wrote down on paper didn't sound like you. And it it was because we wrote them on paper first, st and we prototyped them together as opposed to you, being conversational, speaking it out and then
Kevin Kaspar: trying to actually document that. So I think this is super critical, and it it's important because everyone has their own way of delivering things like morgan's gonna deliver her pitch different than Annie and Annie's gonna deliver her pitch different than Dave, and that's totally fine. That's like one of the unique pieces of about being able to pitch, is you can infuse your own style and tone and personality into this.
Kevin Kaspar: and leaning into that, is more effective than trying to the remove it from the 1st place. So that definitely relates to being able to speak it out loud.
Kevin Kaspar: okay, I'm gonna try and also communicate this point because I think it's critical. But again, 1st time doing it.
Kevin Kaspar: Sometimes all of you get bogged down really deep into the technicalities of what you're building.
Kevin Kaspar: So I'm going to explain this. And I. And I think that using logic to try and answer some of these questions helps the listener understand more intuitively. All you're trying to do is, have them into it. A lot of the information you're explaining rather than have them critically think about it. So an example I have is, I remember getting asked this question. So I was building this like
Kevin Kaspar: this sensor based product that you put in the middle of nowhere of all this like forested land to monitor for wildfires, and someone asked me, and one of my questions that I wrote down was, How are you going to deploy all of these products to
Kevin Kaspar: into the into the woods like, How are you literally going to do that? That sounds impossible. And someone could, one person could say, Okay, well, I'm gonna get a team of 10 people. We're gonna go on the ground. We have this truck. We're gonna bring these boxes and we're gonna deploy them over 36 h, and we're gonna use a nail and nail them to the tree like. That's 1 way to answer the question, but the logical answer to it that I chose to answer. The question was.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm working with timber companies. They have really well built in road systems. So I can access all areas of the property, and that is all information that they needed to understand that it wasn't impossible. All they were doing was asking because they thought it was physically impossible. So if you can just showcase to them, hey, look.
Kevin Kaspar: the reason it's gonna work is because of who we're working with the. It's not because of. We're gonna bring on this team and we're gonna execute it. They just need to know that
Kevin Kaspar: there's a very logical answer to something like this. And it's not gonna happen every time to all of your questions, but sometimes you can use a little bit less of a technical answer, and still even more effectively answer the question.
Kevin Kaspar: Last last, but not least, like you get to pick what you wear. You get to pair, what music you want.
Lilliana Robinson: And I want to see if there are questions with the logic. One. Because I think that's a really good point. Can you go? Just go back one before we get to this point.
Lilliana Robinson: Because that made perfect sense. Did that make sense to everyone else?
Lilliana Robinson: Question from Andy, how would you explain it to.
Annie Brown: Oh, yeah, I I was just gonna say, like, like the way that I explain to myself sometimes is the best way to explain explain it? Because it's like like, why does it make sense to me like, why, why am I pursuing this and moving forward with it, and so confident about it. Here's why, and and not have to get into, like all the nitty gritty of it.
Annie Brown: Thanks again.
Kevin Kaspar: Airplane.
Lilliana Robinson: I like what Kevin said, where it's like, people are not actually asking you these questions for a full thought out answer of your plan and stuff they're just seeing. If this is actually a roadblock or not, it's more of like a yes or no like, how are you going to do this is actually, can you do this? So you just tell them a piece of proof. I really like that.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool.
Kevin Kaspar: And these examples are oftentimes things that people are wary or anxious or concerned about your business, so you can try and use this framework, when you might get questions that you're a little bit scared to answer, or questions that are more challenging to answer or challenging for the general audience to understand. So, yeah, definitely.
Kevin Kaspar: okay, cool. Yeah. You get to pick what you wear. You get to pick what music you have.
Kevin Kaspar: You know those things. They don't matter that much, but they matter so don't overthink it, but definitely like, be intentional with with what you choose, because all of it plays into the pitch, and how you're received on stage, for sure.
Lilliana Robinson: I like that. You put how you stand on stage, also how you sit. So we'll practice this the morning of. But think about it. When you guys are practicing your pitch like once, you actually have your pitch, and you're in the phase where you're just iterating it, or you're reiterating it out loud to people, don't sit
Lilliana Robinson: practice it standing up, because that's how you're gonna give it on stage for the QA. Practice sitting and talking to someone 50 50. So you're gonna look at the audience. You're gonna look at the person.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Think about those things before the day of we haven't gone over what to wear, what music to pick. I'll just quickly say, you guys get to pick your walk on music. You've seen it in all the examples. You get 15 seconds Demo day appropriate. So basically, nothing that's like offensive. But other than that, it's it can be anything, anything you want. People have been pretty creative with that. Other people just choose things that hype them up personally, and it has nothing to do with their business. And it's just what's gonna get them to have the energy to go on stage.
Lilliana Robinson: what to wear. You saw a lot of people in the T-shirts, the graphic T-shirts with their company logo. That's like the traditional wardrobe, as we've had more and more programs, I've realized. And Neil has realized, like, people are comfortable in different things. So there's really no requirement.
Lilliana Robinson: Obviously, you want to dress respectfully. But like other than that. You can wear the T-shirt if you're comfortable in a blazer or in a suit. We've had. People wear suits. We've had people wear dresses. We've had. People wear their company t-shirt and jeans like there. It can be any variety. We've had. People wear an apron because she's selling the baking kits like lab coat. Whatever is like applicable to your business, or whatever you're most comfortable in, there's like no limitations. But if you don't know, just
Lilliana Robinson: wear a shirt with your company. Name on it. That's like the safest bet.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool.
Kevin Kaspar: Sweet thanks for going over that
Kevin Kaspar: alright.
Dave Scott: So I can come in cosplay right?
Lilliana Robinson: It. You could.
Dave Scott: Think.
Kevin Kaspar: We have had to turn some ideas down in the past.
Lilliana Robinson: We have had someone asked to wear like a to be in like a blow up suit.
Lilliana Robinson: and and we had to tell them no, so like I will say. There, I I guess, I said. No limitations. There are slight limitations.
Lilliana Robinson: We have to be able to see your face. You have to be able to be heard.
Kevin Kaspar: Exactly
Kevin Kaspar: alright cool. So on this next point. This is something that I think really matters, that oftentimes, when people get in the thick of it. They don't. They don't internalize as much.
Kevin Kaspar: but the Ceos are the ones pitching, and while it could be helpful to have your co-founder work on the pitch and work on the demo and work on the Q. And a. Like. You're the one presenting it that your co-founder is not going to be presenting it. So, no matter what, you're the most qualified person to be writing the script.
Kevin Kaspar: creating the materials and working to make sure that how you're communicating it comes across effectively. So if you have other people on your team.
Kevin Kaspar: I would argue that they shouldn't be doing any of this work. So.
Kevin Kaspar: to be honest, I've seen some of this already with some of the people we've like in this class that I've worked with.
Kevin Kaspar: The CEO should be doing all of the work, in my opinion. Related to this. So not your intern, your marketer especially, not your advisor. Like. This is your work. You need to be the one crafting it and creating it.
Kevin Kaspar: if you have questions about that, I'm happy to answer that
Kevin Kaspar: and this goes back to the way that we worked together earlier. So most or all of you have kind of gone through this like brainstorming document process, where we came up with some ideas together that could be compelling to use in your pitch, or your QA. Or your demo? That's why I had you answer those questions. It was so that I wasn't creating content for you. You were creating content for yourself that you were comfortable, communicating and sharing.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, then my last piece of advice is because it is your pitch. You should be taking the reins on it. But I do
Kevin Kaspar: absolutely believe in getting advice, and I think there's tactics of how to get advice. I'll talk more about this later, but like having a more mentor, madness, style, approach of like getting all your feedback at once. Can be helpful. So keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. People always ask me like, even after we do this like, how how do you know it's a good pitch. How do you know that it resonated? Or how do you know that I did a good job, like people often looking for a little confirmation?
Kevin Kaspar: a few things like your pitch, answers the. So what? Behind everything? Right, people take information at face value. But if you can go one layer deeper and answer the so what? Behind a lot of these questions, I think that your
Kevin Kaspar: you're prone to do a good job. So if you look at your pitch, and it answers the so what? To the extent of every single question or every single point you want to make, it matters another way. You can do this. Learn this in the classroom actually was like, ask yourself why, 5 times for something, and you usually get to the root of the problem and
Kevin Kaspar: while it might seem like a silly or stupid exercise, I do believe at times it is helpful. So if you're ever struggling to answer a question or struggling. Hey? Is this the right content that I'm presenting like? Don't be afraid to use a framework like this. The goal is not so that you, you know, go to the 5.th Why, and use that explicitly. The the reason is just so that you
Kevin Kaspar: are thinking at a deeper level, and you're pulling the insights. One layer deeper than than maybe the way you've thought about it before.
Kevin Kaspar: The last thing that I think is important is
Kevin Kaspar: by the time that you reach the stage you should be 100% confident in your capability to actually go execute this, there's a difference between being confident and being cocky, and I think, like there's a nuance there. But I would argue that you kind of have to blur the line a little bit because
Kevin Kaspar: you have to be confident when you're going up on stage, or else you'll be nervous like we've had people come up the morning of, and and really have a hard time when they're practicing their pitch, and that really ruins their confidence. So the only way to create confidence is by practicing. So that's the way to solve for that problem. But if you feel anything less than 100 confident, it is likely that
Kevin Kaspar: it might not go exactly the way that you have wanted, like people can improv really well on stage, some people better than others, and no matter what I'm sure what you're presenting will be well thought out and well executed, even if it wasn't 100% what you wanted it to be. But just, it is important to kind of have that
Kevin Kaspar: that large level of confidence that you can actually go up and execute like at a really high level.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. The last piece that I want to make is, you could plan out all the content in the world, and it could be the best pitch, and the demo could be awesome, and your QA could be super well thought out. You have everything that you want to say, but if you don't deliver it in a way that's compelling
Kevin Kaspar: the content like in a harsh way, just doesn't matter at that point, because it's not being received in a way that other people are internalizing it and actually understanding it. So
Kevin Kaspar: that's just something that you have to keep in mind. And that's why I think, thinking about how you stand on stage, how you sit on stage. What words you're actually using, what your tone of voice is, how you're connecting sentences together. That's how all of this delivery piece comes into play. And I definitely think that's really important.
Kevin Kaspar: So again.
Kevin Kaspar: cool, like tone intonation, the speed and the pace that you're talking, I think that was the biggest one. So. I saw this with Troy last week. We were going over the pitches for the 1st time, and completely understandable like. This is the 1st time that you're delivering the pitch to someone. We've done a lot of changes to it, but
Kevin Kaspar: you all were moving pretty fast through it, and having a lot of pace to it, which meant that it was really hard to keep up with so I would argue that when you're pitching you should be moving at like literally half the pace that you think that you should be. Which does mean that you are saying a lot less words, and you are cutting down on what you're saying, and that's the hardest part. But I would argue, it is more important
Kevin Kaspar: to cut down and actually be able to say it in 60 seconds, slowly and effectively, than say everything that you want to say and feel like you have to cram.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: I'm talking on both sides of my mouth because I've helped all of you, and then we're at 1 min and like I don't know how to shorten it. But that's why you're the CEO of the company you get to continue to work on that. So I know how challenging it is. I really do. But I think that it's something that you can't compromise on.
Dave Scott: Can I ask a question? So on Demo Day? Will there be like a beep beep, beep, beep at 1 1, or will it just be a very gentle nudge. So if we went to 1. 0, 3, is it gonna hurt us, or it's it's all good.
Lilliana Robinson: The good question, Dave. It is the total time. So if you bleed over in your pitch, you're just gonna have less time in your QA.
Lilliana Robinson: So your video is pretty set. If you bleed over in your pitch and your QA. Is going along, we'll just start playing the next person's walk up music as like a
Lilliana Robinson: you gotta wrap up. But that's only ever happened once. I would say
Lilliana Robinson: people have in mind that the more time they take up, they're actually going into someone else's pitch, which is not considerate. And you guys are a very considerate class. So as we practice and practice. It usually gets down to where you're hitting the 6 min mark every single time, and we haven't had to like play people off the stage, except for like once or twice.
Lilliana Robinson: and I think what happened in those cases are, the people forgot their Q. And a. And so they were kind of rambling, and then the Eir had to say, Okay, did you want to? Actually, they didn't do a closing statement. They just said, Okay, thank you. Everybody. Evil genius games, and then they just walked off stage.
Lilliana Robinson: So if you want to avoid that, just try and keep the whole thing to 6 min.
Kevin Kaspar: My only other thing to add with that is because of that you might feel like, Oh, I can go 3, 4, 5, 6 sent seconds over on my pitch, and no one will notice
Kevin Kaspar: you can. If you deliver at a 1 min and 8 seconds, no one will really notice. But if you go 1 min and 15 seconds, people will notice, because it's going to be noted, it's gonna be 30% longer than all of the other pitches. So the 1 min.
Kevin Kaspar: like pitch is a 1 min pitch, and if you're going so slow that you go a little bit over, that's fine. You'll just eat away at your QAA little bit, but definitely don't craft a pitch that's 75 seconds intentionally.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A quick story for that. We had one company that thought they were hot shit, and they were. They had already raised like 6 million dollars like during the program. So it was pretty impressive, but he kind of showed up the last minute, mailed it in, for Demo Day wasn't quite prepped, and you know I made not a mistake, but I I still let him get on stage because he thought he had it down, because he's a really smart guy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and so he gets up there, starts to do his pitch, starts to talk, thinks he can wing it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and ends up freezing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on stage and looks over at me, and I had his back, and everything powered him through it. But it was such a humbling and awkward moment for him to realize, like he can't just show up to everything and figure it out just because he's done so well, so far with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I really appreciated that moment, and I think it helped kind of set the stage and allow people to understand like it can happen to anyone. So don't take liberties that you think because it's worked out so far. When you wing it. You can do it this time, because it won't work.
Kevin Kaspar: Super good point.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. That's everything on my pitching principles. So that's my main pre pre nitty, gritty advice that we're gonna go over. So I'm gonna spend the next
Kevin Kaspar: chunk of this talking about each component of it. It's gonna include, like, what are some core things just to think about, or things that I recommend you think about in each of these segments, and then, like some do's and don'ts I consider taking out the do's and don'ts.
Kevin Kaspar: cause it's really just like a balancing act like it's not like. Don't do this, but it's just the balance of you. Want to make sure you focus on this, but but not too much of this. You'll see that. But take that all with a grain of salt.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright for the 1 min pitch. Specifically, this is where I've spent the most time with all of you. So this none of this should be like completely insightful or new. I talked a lot about like framing the problem and making sure that
Kevin Kaspar: pitches, especially
Kevin Kaspar: pitches that are set up to have more content after them
Kevin Kaspar: having a problem framed pitch over a solution oriented pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: Personally, I just think, delivers much more effectively. So
Kevin Kaspar: I've seen some pitches that jump right to. And we're this company. We're building this. And this is how it works and all of that. But you need to set some context first, st and that relates back to what you need to teach the audience, and how you need to showcase that this is a a problem.
Kevin Kaspar: Jake said. It best like contrast creates meaning. So keep that in mind, and framing the problem effectively allows you to create that kind of contrast.
Kevin Kaspar: The second piece which relates back to that question Dave was asking earlier was like you, you do need to answer in some capacity, like what you do, and often explaining who you help on sets the context for understanding what you do.
Kevin Kaspar: and without the what and the how, so like
Kevin Kaspar: without those in mind and the benefits that you provide, they're not going to be able to dig deeper. So they're not gonna care about the market size or the competitors, or why you're prone to solve this problem. If they don't understand, who needs this help, what they need help doing and how that you're actually gonna go out and tackle that, and what benefits they have. So like they're just again some of these like very core
Kevin Kaspar: concrete things that we've been teaching you all along at techstars. But like these things have to
Kevin Kaspar: be reiterated in a pitch like this. For you to have the opportunity to go deeper, because it is like a privilege to be able to go as deep as you are hoping to go with your audience, and it comes from having those like core guiding principles figured out pretty early.
Kevin Kaspar: something that people really do care about in the audience is they've never met you before like you do want to answer the question of why you why you're capable of doing this. Why, you can execute
Kevin Kaspar: Why you started this right. You don't need to explain all of those things, but I do think that it's important for someone to understand who you are and the background that you might have that makes you qualified to do this, because at the end of the day, like we picked a lot of you because of the founder oriented mentality that you have and the people that you are so being able to showcase that in a pitch
Kevin Kaspar: is is important, and you might think, oh, well, the least important thing about this is who I am, because I have so much, so many other things that I want to say about my business. But
Kevin Kaspar: you should segment a specific amount of time to do that. I think all of you know that Troy mentioned that. But just definitely keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: The last thing is, I just think examples make this so much easier. It makes. It makes it a lot easier for people to understand, and examples can come in all shapes, forms, and sizes. And I understand that we've already talked about that with every single one of you, of what some examples could be, whether you go really deep in one example, or you give a few higher level examples, or you show parallel successes in other industries. Those are all
Kevin Kaspar: examples that are being provided that tell the audience something
Kevin Kaspar: related to your product that helps them contextualize and understand what you're building a little bit more effectively. So.
Kevin Kaspar: however, you infuse those into your pitch is to your discretion. But it's something that you really don't want to miss out on. I think when you're developing your pitch
Kevin Kaspar: alright. So what to do and not to do, I'm gonna go horizontally
Kevin Kaspar: again. Just keep these in mind like you do want to write a script like you absolutely want to pick every single word carefully write a script and have it noted. But if you
Kevin Kaspar: think that you have to stick to that script, no matter what, even if you get on stage and forget something.
Kevin Kaspar: You're gonna have a much harder time ad libbing live like Neil was just mentioning.
Kevin Kaspar: because you're so stuck looking for the next sentence that you tried to remember. It's much better to write a script, but also know the bullet points of okay. You're really only making 4 or 5 points in this 1 min. Pitch. Right? Oh, who would it? Who's facing this problem like, I don't cognit scope like, Oh, talk about Sony! Talk about the problem that exists. Why, I'm qualified to solve it. Experience that I've had that relates to this, how we could have helped them, what vision we have if you can keep that in mind. Like as you're going through this pitch
Kevin Kaspar: if you forget something. Yeah, maybe you don't remember the words in the exact same way. But you can come up with a sentence that is 80% as good as what you wrote down so definitely write a script. But definitely, don't be afraid to ad lib live if you come to it.
Kevin Kaspar: again. That that relates to like fighting for every word and not stumbling on on missed words, and being able to improvise a little bit, is we already talked about this, but just being able, being really intentional with the words that you select and why you pick them.
Kevin Kaspar: Every sentence matters, especially in a 1 min pitch. So just challenge yourself with every sentence that you write. If it is the most concise, effective way for you yourself, the CEO, to be communicating that information.
Kevin Kaspar: The next piece relates to the amount of information that you can cram into it.
Kevin Kaspar: The the negatives that I often see are people try and cram their pitch deck into a 1 min pitch for Demo Day. They're like, all right. Well, I have this pitch deck that I built out has all of the things in my business as everything that I need to know. I'm just gonna take those slides. I'm gonna put it in the deck, or I'm gonna put in the pitch. I'm gonna put some of the Q&A and put some of the demo, and I'm gonna call it a day.
Kevin Kaspar: that's 1 way to approach it. But it's going to feel very segmented and separated. And that's why, having more of this, like holistic, broad view of what you're doing like, look at it from a bird's eye, and then pick what's important, and craft your narrative from there. We've already talked a lot about that together
Kevin Kaspar: again, just repeating, what do they do? What are the benefits that are associated with what you do and don't be. Don't.
Kevin Kaspar: I would try not to be super creative with this like, find something that works and repeat it, and you've learned over mentor madness. What works, how you communicate about your business. You've had a lot of experience identifying what resonates with people and what doesn't. And that's the 1st question that I asked. All of you, actually, when we were working together earlier was, what do people understand today? And what do they not understand, and spending time on what they don't understand is probably the
Kevin Kaspar: more worth your time to refine.
Kevin Kaspar: And then, yeah, last, like, definitely, focus on your posture how you're walking your presence on stage like I'll be the 1st to admit I have a horrible habit when I'm presenting to like walk literally all over the place, and like when people when I'm getting recorded the camera will have to follow me everywhere, and like that's a bad habit of mine. But it's something that I know about myself, and that's why we always try to tell founders like, try and plant your feet. It's okay to move a little bit. If you're like.
Kevin Kaspar: you make a point and then you move. Maybe you want to show something on the screen. That's okay, like you don't have to stand in one place the entire time, but, like you don't want to be zigzagging all over the place. So definitely something to keep in mind and then like, don't don't fake it, though.
Lilliana Robinson: On that point, Kevin. I usually try. I'll try at Google. We'll see. I usually try to put like an X on the place. I want you to stand so that you guys can just anchor your feet there almost like they're glued.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of you move, you get nervous, and it's so distracting you.
Kevin Kaspar: Totally distracting.
Lilliana Robinson: Stand like a your cement and give your pitch. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: great.
Kevin Kaspar: cool alright moving on.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright! 1 min, Demo.
Lilliana Robinson: Something else. At the end of that.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, yeah, I was just saying like,
Kevin Kaspar: Sometimes people try to overdo it. They try and fake it. They try to not be themselves like
Kevin Kaspar: you can kind of notice when that happens. So the best way to not fake it is to do it so many times that you're being yourself and being authentic, and record yourself in practice, and I'm sure I have that later in this presentation.
Kevin Kaspar: cool moving into the demo. This is going to be much shorter. This is not my bread and butter. The Liliana thankfully had a workshop earlier today to go over this, so my guiding principles are follow Liliana's guidance. She had an entire workshop on this. I don't need to try and get creative with it. I'm sure she did some awesome work. I wasn't able to make it for all of it, but
Lilliana Robinson: You've made Demos before. You don't have any guidance after seeing like 50 or 60 Demo Day.
Kevin Kaspar: I have some, some do's and don'ts, so like one thing which we already mentioned, a little bit was like, I think it is important to
Kevin Kaspar: treat this as a continuation of something that you've already said. It doesn't need to be like.
Kevin Kaspar: Make it feel like your pitch flows extremely well right into your demo, but you do need to like use the knowledge and information that you've already communicated
Kevin Kaspar: to craft your storyboard. So you should.
Kevin Kaspar: One piece of advice. I already have this later, but like I think you should put your your script for everything in Demo Day, all in one document, so that you can see how from top to bottom, how it reads. And that's just one way to make sure that you're thinking about these things.
Kevin Kaspar: let's see, the second thing is, I always think it is helpful to have, like a user centric approach to some of the storytelling especially in the Demo, because ultimately you're showcasing what is being created, what is being used and
Kevin Kaspar: knowing who's using that. Sometimes people have testimonials as a way to do that. Sometimes people have recordings of what people have said about their products. Sometimes people will do a walkthrough with one user. I think that generally comes across more effectively than talking about your product more broadly, but.
Kevin Kaspar: like everything, it depends.
Kevin Kaspar: Lastly.
Kevin Kaspar: we've already mentioned this a little, but you have to invest kind of that time, energy, and or money into the quality of the video, not only for the purpose of keeping it engaging, but also for the purpose of you're likely going to repurpose this in some way, shape or form for future investors, for future mentors for your website. Whatever it is.
Kevin Kaspar: it's it's gonna find its way somewhere else, and you don't want to do repeat work as a founder. So anything that you can do to make this extremely compelling well thought out.
Kevin Kaspar: it's going to be effective
Kevin Kaspar: if I'm sure we've talked about this before. But, like don't add in like the superfluous content of like login screens or things that just like aren't absolutely essential. So just like stick to the bare bones. What really matters? And what do they need to see? Cause I've seen a lot of demos. People are clicking through so many things they're like. Then they go onto the website. And then they do this. And then they do this, and then they do this and like my brain, just like I can't do it like, show me 3 screens that are more important. And let me understand those in depth as opposed to 10 screens that
Kevin Kaspar: I don't really understand. And I can't cause they're gonna they're also gonna try and read whatever's on your screen, like most of you are building software. So, and especially if it's dense text.
Kevin Kaspar: you're going to
Kevin Kaspar: be inclined to just start reading whatever is, is there? And
Kevin Kaspar: that's challenging, because you want them to actually engage with the content. But you also want your voice to be the the guiding principle over, or whoever's voice is doing the demo. You want that to be the guiding principle and guide their eyes and their attention. You don't want them distracted in. A lot of the the text, heavy components of your demo.
Kevin Kaspar: So that's my main advice.
Kevin Kaspar: alrighty moving into the Q. And a.
Kevin Kaspar: I think this is definitely the thing that people spend
Kevin Kaspar: the least amount of time on to be just completely honest. And I think it's the biggest missed opportunity, because
Kevin Kaspar: the reason that people are effective communicators and storytellers is because questions are asked. It's really hard to engage people in an exciting way. If, when you're not prompting any questions, and you're showing people things the minute that you can
Kevin Kaspar: have a question answered.
Kevin Kaspar: I've heard it a thousand times like it gives space in the brain to actually prompt those questions in the audience's mind.
Kevin Kaspar: So definitely keep that in mind. I have some guiding principles here, I think. Yeah, this is a story out of my out of my consulting life. Be very answer. First, st they're massive on this of where I worked last summer. But this just means like, answer the question that's being asked like, it's not that complicated. If someone says, How much money are you? What's your burn rate per month.
Kevin Kaspar: You better start with. I'm spending $3,000 a month today.
Kevin Kaspar: Like, personally, I think that that's the most effective way to do it. If you need more context to explain why you're spending that amount of money and why it's a smart decision that you're doing that like. That's totally fine. But I think
Kevin Kaspar: you definitely should
Kevin Kaspar: be intentional with
Kevin Kaspar: answering the question right away and providing the context that you need later.
Kevin Kaspar: Alrighty guiding principles number 2. 1 thought per question. I think this is important. We said this. I've talked about this with a few people of with pitches like in the slide decks.
Kevin Kaspar: having one
Kevin Kaspar: thought per slide is effective. So having one thought per question is even more effective.
Kevin Kaspar: maybe it was Liliana. Or maybe Neil yesterday was like, if you have 2 different things that you want to say in a question, just have your Eir ask 2 questions like, I think that's just way more effective because it creates that conversational tone. Anyways.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright! Talk to your eirs and try and coordinate with them as much as possible. That week of when you're working with them to practice it, to have it be a conversation. Maybe they can add things that are
Kevin Kaspar: like building on to what you've already said to make it seem like it's a conversation, and not just talking back and forth. But
Kevin Kaspar: I think that's important.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright, last one
Kevin Kaspar: at the end of all of this. All you're what you're really trying to do at the end of the day is to get them to act on something right? You. You're going to have an ask at the end of this, and this is your last chance to convince the audience to come up to you afterwards.
Kevin Kaspar: right. The best way to win Demo Day is to be able to have the right conversations with the people that matter to you in the room that's being provided. So
Kevin Kaspar: use your QA. To try and push people to take action right like all of this funnels, down to one action and whatever that may be, use the Q. And a. To try and guide them there
Kevin Kaspar: alright. Some things to keep in mind for the QA.
Kevin Kaspar: spend like, spend a lot of time on this. Be super crafty and and very intentional. With
Kevin Kaspar: what questions are actually being asked. Like you get to curate that. And I think that's such a privilege to be able to curate what questions are being asked so like, spend a lot of time on it. You're probably gonna think you're gonna spend more time on the pitch than the Q. And a. But
Kevin Kaspar: there's 4 times the duration in the QA. Than the pitch. So just keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: But you're not gonna be able to say everything like
Kevin Kaspar: you probably are gonna want to be able to say everything about your business. And the reality is you're you're just not going to be able to. And you should be okay with that, because you should have given them the 80% of information that really matters and left out the 20% of information that you know is the
Kevin Kaspar: the extra information that is helpful but not essential.
Kevin Kaspar: You should be super concise with these. So Liliana said. 4 to 6 questions in 4 min. I think that that makes sense. But it's better to get in more questions than less, and people often ramble on stage. So you definitely should be mindful of that, even if you wrote out some sort of script for what you want to say.
Kevin Kaspar: it's much more common to to ramble once you actually are are guiding the conversation. So
Kevin Kaspar: I think that's definitely something you want to keep in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: The other thing is you you get the chance. Oh, also be very specific. I think this is something. That was mentioned earlier, like you might have to talk in a little bit more of a broad way in your pitch and your demo. But the QA. Is is a way for you to actually dig deeper, and you should be digging deeper during that time. So get specific. Give examples. Dig into the parts of the business that you want to talk about, and that you need to talk about and don't be afraid of that.
Kevin Kaspar: That's literally what the Q&A is for
Kevin Kaspar: the next thing which I think is super unique is you actually get to sequence the questions how you want. And sometimes people don't think too intentionally about that. They're like, Oh, these are my 4 or 6 questions. I'm just gonna put them up. I don't care which one's first, st second, 3, rd 4, th
Kevin Kaspar: it totally matters. It totally changes the way that people engage with those 4 min so definitely definitely be intentional about how you sequence the questions. But again, like you don't need to overthink this. Use your gut, trust your gut. You know your business well.
Kevin Kaspar: Just spend enough time to think about it, so you have an opinion on it.
Kevin Kaspar: The next piece is
Kevin Kaspar: to answer the hard questions. We went over this yesterday with the QA. But don't shy away from them. Get on top of them. This is just critical. I think that it
Kevin Kaspar: lets you be more honest. It lets the audience in to you a little bit more effectively, and you can kind of relate to them, or just drive points home that you need to make please don't sugarcoat the challenges, or lie or be dishonest like you are. Not that class. I'm not worried about that with any of you, but it's just super super important not to do that.
Lilliana Robinson: That have been more.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's unfortunate.
Kevin Kaspar: The last piece is like, don't be afraid to surprise your audience like I was thinking about this yesterday. You were all talking about things you were scared to say, or things that you're anxious to talk about during the Q. And a. Like
Kevin Kaspar: people want to be entertained. Don't be afraid to throw something that no one would have ever thought. Maybe it's a customer that you're working with, like Dave probably has a million exciting like people that he's working with in la, that in Hollywood that you wouldn't expect him to be working with just because you've only understood his business for 2 or 3 min. Don't be afraid to throw things out like that. It's a way to re-engage the audience if they're not listening.
Dave Scott: You're up about my tea with Vin Diesel. That kind of stuff.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, like, I don't know. I mean.
Kevin Kaspar: like, you're you're fighting for people's attention. So at the end of the day, like, if it brings people back in it brings people back in
Kevin Kaspar: Make sure it's on track and on message. But I think that things like that don't necessarily hurt
Kevin Kaspar: alright. We're moving towards the end of this. It seems like we have about 30 min left, so I'll take questions at the end. But keep keep asking as they come,
Kevin Kaspar: a closing ask. It's like really important to to the end. Right? You're working towards this. The the main question that I try to answer when I'm evaluating the the questions you're asking is like, would someone actually come up to you and talk about this? Because I don't know about you all, but like
Kevin Kaspar: I don't love going up to random strangers that's not like in my like thing that I love doing on a daily basis. And I'm sure other people in the audience feel that way. And like you have to get people really excited about what you're doing
Kevin Kaspar: to promote these people that you've never met before to come up and offer their help and their advice and their energy. If they're a customer, maybe it's 1 thing, because you're solving a pain point for them. But if you're and if you're an investor, it's another thing, too. But like there are going to be asked out there that, like, you have to
Kevin Kaspar: be friendly and encourage people to come up to you casually, conversationally, and you just want to be able to, no matter what the ask is, have people be excited to come and talk to you afterwards? So just keep that in mind as you go about your ask. It's like not very tactical, but it's just something that I think is worth keeping in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. People always ask me this, too. How would I prep for demo day. If I were to do this, give me some advice, and I will try and be as tactical as possible.
Kevin Kaspar: And we can. We can dig into that too.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. I would argue that today it's Friday, so maybe not today, but Monday. Enjoy your weekend. I I would really take your 1st step at building out your pitch, building out your demo and building out your QA. All in one document. And the reason, I said, all in one document is, you get to see from top to bottom how your story is presenting itself, and
Kevin Kaspar: you're likely gonna have to move things around. Oh, I don't have room for that in the pitch. I want to put it in the QA. That's fine, added in the QA. Oh, the demo didn't work out the way I wanted it to, because we tried to add too much information. We didn't have testimonials. Oh, create a new question for testimonials, and I'll put it right after the demo, so I can talk about it right away.
Kevin Kaspar: putting it all in one document helps you see it more effectively.
Kevin Kaspar: This is another thing. You have to leave placeholders for things that you haven't completed
Kevin Kaspar: in your business yet, because all of you have goals and aspirations for what you want to get accomplished
Kevin Kaspar: by Demo Day, and it kinda will lit a fire under your ass of like. Oh, crap! Like I don't have the traction that I want yet, or I don't have the customer that I want yet. But I'm working towards that. I know I'm on the right track, and I know I want to talk about it in question. 2 of the Q&A
Kevin Kaspar: right, everyone's gonna have something like that. And if you leave a placeholder for it. Now, you might not have the answer for it now. But you're gonna make sure that you have the answer for it later, when you actually go out and pitch during demo day, so build it all out as much as you can, now and then fill fill in the gaps as you go.
Kevin Kaspar: This also relates to questions that you don't know the answer to now I know some of you mentioned. Oh, I don't. I don't have an answer to this. That's really stressing me out.
Kevin Kaspar: if you document those you put those on paper, you're much more likely to actually be able to answer them. And you might be able to answer it really effectively by the end of program, and want that in your QA. So don't don't shy away from things that you don't have the answer to like. I think we're George and I were talking last week like he doesn't have the answer to something that's totally fine like he has what 4 weeks left to continue to focus on this and make progress on it. It's a lot of time like you've made a lot of progress in one month. From what we've already done, so
Kevin Kaspar: don't be afraid to leave placeholders for things that you need answered in the future.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright, this is my most tactical piece of advice.
Kevin Kaspar: one thing that I've noticed is that people change their pitch completely
Kevin Kaspar: from mentor to mentor. I'm sure all of you got feedback from Troy, and then decided that you needed to change your pitch. As a result, I'm not saying that Troy was wrong in his feedback. I'm sure every piece of feedback that Troy gave you was helpful and important for you to consider in crafting a compelling 1 min pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: However, I also think realistically, you shouldn't take every piece of advice from every person. Now, maybe you're more inclined to take advice from Troy than some than your friend, who doesn't know much about your business. But
Kevin Kaspar: you're just not going to be able to take every piece of advice from every person. That's why we have you meet with tons of people from during mentor madness all at once, and then you make the changes about your business. We had you fill out that form where you synthesize all of the things from your business that you needed to improve or change, and then you acted on it. If you're
Kevin Kaspar: writing a pitch and then sending it to me. And I'm making all these changes, and then you go talk to Troy, and then he makes all these changes, and then you send it to Neil and Liliana. And they make all these changes. You're never gonna be happy with your pitch in my perspective. I've done this before, and I've had a really really hard time with it. So
Kevin Kaspar: my advice is really to
Kevin Kaspar: get all of this feedback at once, which is why that you should be building it out today. And what that looks like is, you be super intentional, hey? This is my script. This is my demo. Maybe it's just the script, maybe, and the visuals that go alongside it. You don't have the video put together yet. These are the QA. Information like, build all of that out, and then get advice all at once. So meet with 5 or 6 people that you trust. Get all of their feedback, find the patterns in it, and then figure out what to change from there.
Kevin Kaspar: Liliana, did you have something.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Also leave time for people to get back to you just because you need to know, like now, because you waited last minute doesn't mean all 5 are going to respond to you within 2 days like you should budget time because not on them. If they don't get back to you within 2448 h. It might take them 4 or 5 days since you're asking them to review a lot of stuff. So you need to leave that and know that basically, it's on you to give that buffer room. If you're you're trying to get feedback.
Kevin Kaspar: For sure. That's a really good point. Okay, I think that's everything. Oh, last one. Yeah, this is something that I'm
Kevin Kaspar: I. I'm anxious about to be honest with. With all of you is
Kevin Kaspar: You have all the tools, resources, capable capabilities to actually go execute multiple versions of this, but
Kevin Kaspar: it's a lot of time and energy to actually go do that. And I'm not asking you to spend 1015 HA week redoing it time and time again. But I think that it's important to reevaluate your pitch every week, because your business changes a lot in one week. That's why we're in an accelerator, and your opinion on how you're communicating this information will also change a lot in one week, so
Kevin Kaspar: you don't need to spend hours and hours and hours a week going through a different version. But if you present a demo day and you've only had 2 different drafts of this.
Kevin Kaspar: it's just not going to come across as effective as if you looked at it every week for an hour a week, and said, What do I need to change this week. What do I need to change this week? You're just more reps is just going to be more effective. So.
Kevin Kaspar: my
Kevin Kaspar: honestly, a lot of these are big pieces of advice, but, like the last 2, I think are are the most important is, get your feedback all at once, and just look at it frequently, and make sure that you're constantly checking up to date to make sure that you're happy with it.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. Another set of tactical advice.
Kevin Kaspar: memorize your pitch, and your QA. There, there's pretty much no excuses to this. It eats up a lot of a good amount of your time. And I understand that Demo Day
Kevin Kaspar: is a lot of work in and of itself.
Kevin Kaspar: But the reason that I I think it's so important is not even for the purpose of Demo Day, but for the purpose of having these things ingrained in the way that you talk about your business like you heard Jake when he, when he I remember it so vividly. He was responding about a question an investor had couldn't tell you what he said, but he had it so on the money, and it was super, swift, super effective, and it was because he said it a hundred different times in a hundred different rooms.
Kevin Kaspar: And this is the start of building out that question Bank. And those questions that you're going to get asked, and your pitch that you're going to be able to communicate flawlessly. So if you're not doing it for Demo Day, at least do it for your future self. So definitely keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, this is the next thing. Please record yourself pitching like, please please do it.
Kevin Kaspar: practice the pitch, practice the Q&A. Sitting down.
Kevin Kaspar: Make sure that your
Kevin Kaspar: practicing and recording yourself. It'll like uncover some unfortunate truths about the way that you pitch some things that you'll like some things that you won't. It's uncomfortable, but it's effective. And the most learning that I've done
Kevin Kaspar: about the way that I act, the way that I physically deliver my pitch is through recording it. The content shouldn't really spark any crazy insights because you've heard it all before. You know what you want to say. But
Kevin Kaspar: being focused on the actual delivery, and changing the way that you deliver, based off of how you watch yourself. I think, is important. So
Kevin Kaspar: please do this frequently.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. This is my next piece of advice. Your demo day is December 6.th
Kevin Kaspar: I think that you should be able to do a full, complete run of show, perfectly completely memorized, confident
Kevin Kaspar: by December second at at the latest. I really think that it's hard to perform your best when you're memorizing
Kevin Kaspar: days before and I'm not even just saying memorized by December second, I'm saying, memorize practice. You've recorded yourself. You've gotten all of your feedback. You know what to do, what not to do. You've identified habits from the way you that you're standing or sitting, and you need to change that. You've practiced it with your mentor or your eir like you're ready to go by December second. Because
Kevin Kaspar: it's the last week of program like you're not.
Kevin Kaspar: It's gonna feel like you're coming down to the wire, no matter what. But like. The last thing that you want to do is
Kevin Kaspar: is just have a really hard time the last few days memorizing and making this.
Kevin Kaspar: The most important thing. Because I think what
Kevin Kaspar: oftentimes happens is people get so caught up in this because they don't.
Kevin Kaspar: They aren't proactive about it, that it is everything that they think about leading up to Demo Day. Imagine what you could say if you had everything memorized by that Monday, and you were able to close another customer, or you were able to onboard 500 new people onto your platform, or you were able to get in the sales pipeline with another customer. You want to be able to spend your time on your business, and having everything finished by
Kevin Kaspar: by the week ahead of time, I think, is the best way to to be able to continue focusing on that.
Kevin Kaspar: Read the bullets again. These are like the last thing that I'll leave you with. Please memorize your pitch, please record it, and definitely have a run of show ready at the beginning of the week at the latest.
Kevin Kaspar: If you do these things, you're gonna do an awesome job. Like if you do 80% of this, 60% of it like you're going to be more thoughtful than
Kevin Kaspar: other companies that have done it in the past. You've seen everyone do a really good job. But
Kevin Kaspar: it's because they are intentional about a lot of the things that we reviewed.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, this is the last one of the last 2 things I'm gonna leave you with
Kevin Kaspar: techstars will fill the room for you like in terms of people at Demo Day it will be full. I can promise you that every demo day that I've ever been to has been full at capacity. But
Kevin Kaspar: you know who should be sitting in those seats
Kevin Kaspar: better than us.
Kevin Kaspar: and we can send it out to our network and have our network come and have San Francisco decide who comes to Demo Day. But it's much more effective if
Kevin Kaspar: if George Reid says All right. These are the 10 people in San Francisco that I need at Demo Day. They might help me close my customers. They might help meet me. My! Be my investors. Or maybe I just really need someone, one of my friends to go because I need someone in the room to support me. And it would really make me feel better having a friend in the room like I don't care who it is, but whoever you need in that room to be successful, and to have the outcomes that you want
Kevin Kaspar: like send the link to Demo Day and have them sign up the people that get the most out of Demo Day are the ones that you've already done the hard work to get them in the room. In the 1st place, like.
Kevin Kaspar: if you want the right people in the room make sure that they're in the room. So
Kevin Kaspar: that's my main piece of advice of it's not tactical. It doesn't have anything to do with actually the the pitch itself. But
Kevin Kaspar: just make sure that you're intentional about who you ask to go to Demo Day because you have control over that like, if you get a hundred people to sign up and go to Demo Day and you fill the capacity like good for you.
Kevin Kaspar: The last thing is
Kevin Kaspar: related to the confidence piece, which was one of my objectives earlier. If you're not like over the moon about your pitch, it'll be super clear, and no one else will be either. So
Kevin Kaspar: at the end of the day, the only thing that matters is that you are super excited and confident about the pitch that you've created for yourself, and trust that the way that you deliver it will be compelling.
Kevin Kaspar: If you do that, I think that a lot will follow. So that's like what I'm gonna leave you with is make sure that whatever you're delivering at the end of the day is something that you're proud of, and something that you're really excited about, because if you're excited about it, other people will be excited about it, too.
Kevin Kaspar: That's it. That's all I got. It's been a blast. Hopefully this was helpful. I'm sure you all go crush Demo Day. I'll be here to cheer you on
Kevin Kaspar: and watch you all at Demo Day, but I can't wait to see how things have changed and transformed.
Lilliana Robinson: Thanks, Kevin. That was great. Honestly, that was one of the most comprehensive versions of this I've seen, so I'm glad you redid the deck. Any questions for Kevin. We have about 20 min.
Morgan Stanton: Kevin. I want to be done sooner than December second. That's too late. That's too scary.
Kevin Kaspar: That's right.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I'm pretty sure your approval sessions are right before Thanksgiving.
Lilliana Robinson: I think it's the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving. You'll have to check the calendar. But
Lilliana Robinson: That is going to be your drop dead date.
Dave Scott: When do we incorporate? The ask? Is that after the QA. Or after our 1 min.
Dave Scott: Ashley.
Lilliana Robinson: Q. And a. It's the last thing you say on stage the last question outside of your 4 to 6 questions, the last question from your Eir should be alright. We have the people here in the audience. How can they help you? And then you, for 10 seconds or less, you say your ask, and then you thank them, and then.
Dave Scott: We build that into our 6 min, then.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it should just be 10 seconds of your 4 4 min. QA. It should be the last 10 seconds.
Dave Scott: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Really no more than that it should just be. You say your ask.
Lilliana Robinson: and you thank the Eir, and then you leave.
Kevin Kaspar: Anything else.
Kevin Kaspar: All right.
Lilliana Robinson: Well, we can go ahead and call it kevin. And I can hang back in case people have more personal questions. I'm gonna stop the recording.